So let's get user input and there actually are two ways of doing that,
the first one is another feature which is called local reference.
We can add a marker, a variable to any html element we want,
we do that by adding a hashtag and then any name you want, like post input, like that.
Now this marks this or it creates a reference to that element which you can use and which you can use and
that's important in that template. So you can use it for example here to pass data to on add post,
you could refer to post input like this without the hashtag now and then pass this entire thing,
so this will now just be a reference to the underlying javascript object. In on add post,
we can take a look at it by expecting it as an argument,
so there we get the post input and this will actually be an html input,
we can clearly tell typescript the type by adding a colon then html text area element,
that is exactly what it is.
Now this just informs typescript about the type here,
this is great because now we get better auto-completion because the IDE knows which kind of type that
is
but it also helps us write cleaner code
but I of course only want to do one thing here,
I want to output the post input like this. If we save that and let it reload and have two developer tools
open,
we see that upon saving,
I get this output.
Now we can't really see what's in there, we can't really see the javascript object, we can look into that with console
dir instead of console log,
now if we press save content, we get that textarea object and here you see all the properties this specific
javascript knows, quite a lot as you can see, there also is the value property we bound before.
Now of course we cannot just bind the value property, since we got access to it here
we can also just use it to extract the content and set the content we entered as a value for new post.
So we can say post-input.value to access that value property
and now if we save that, what we can see is that if we enter something here and I hit save post, we see
something down there. Now that really is amazing and this allows us to fetch the user input and output
it,
it's only one way of getting that user input
though. This is a way which of course allows us to do anything with that element, not just get the value
but then get the value if that is what we want to do upon a click.
Now another feature angular offers is a feature called two-way binding, rather then manually setting
the value of the text area and then also getting a reference to it and so on, we can get rid of both
and actually add a new feature which combines the setting and reading of a value.
It's called two-way binding because it has just two directional flow and you add it with square brackets
and parentheses and then ngModel in-between, ngModel is an angular feature,
it's a so-called directive. A directive is basically an instruction you place on an html element and angular
or you can also create your own one so that the relative knows what to do on that element then.
ngModel is a directive that actually will listen to user input and emit that data to us and also store
new data in that text area or output it there.
We need to bind it to a property and I will use a new property for that because I don't want to update
new post with every keystroke,
I'll add entered value here, it's an empty string initially and entered value,
this new property is what I bind to ngModel. Now important, ngModel by default won't work,
it's a feature which is not included in the core angular package here, it's not included in the browser
module which we already added,
it's included in a different module which we need to add,
it's included in the so-called forms module because it's related to forms inputs and this is part
of @angular/forms,
so that's still part of the core framework but of a different part of the framework.
So importing it here allows typescript to find it,
angular isn't aware of it yet though, it is aware
once we add it to the imports array in our app module,
now we're unlocking some forms features and ngModel is one of them.
So now we can use ngModel here and it will automatically update
enter value
or entered value here with every keystroke and therefore in this new post, we no longer receive the
post input here
instead we simply set new post equal to entered value,
this entered value. Back in the template,
this also means we get rid of post input as an argument here and now if we save that and we go back
to our application, you see we don't start with no content anymore,
I can enter something and if I hit save post, we see that here too
but now we're using that two-way binding feature which can also be very handy.
These are the core template binding features angular has, event binding, string interpolation, property
binding which you saw that before with square brackets value and two-way binding.
With that we get a lot of tools that allow us to manipulate our components and the output we have and
also to react to user events
and now with that it's time to leave that world of ugly applications and actually turns into a pretty one
and dive deeper into really building a mean stack project because this is of course no angular basics
course but knowing all these basics and refreshing them is really important so that you don't get lost
throughout the rest of the course.